# Project-Minesweeper

# This project is a Minesweeper game complete with many of the main functions in the popular versions, including flagging, flood fill, an easy 9x9, hard 16x16 mode, a Random mode (discussed later), mine counting, and mine revealing in failure. The GUI has been made to showcase the number of mines present, time elapsed, and number of safety clicks, which excluding the random mode will always be the one starting move in accordance with traditional minesweeper.

# Once the code is run, the pygame gui will pop up and allow a choice of easy, hard, or Random difficulty. Upon clicking of either easy or hard the smaller or larger grid will appear. The first click will be safe and upon selection of an area with multiple safe squares surrounding, a flood fill will activate showing all the connecting safe squares. The logic runs the same as normal versions, with squares indicating proximity of mines and a right-clicking flag feature producing a red icon indicating a non-safe square, which can be undone with a second right click. If a mine is selected a game over screen will initiate asking to click to play again in which the player will be returned for the main menu for difficulty selection. Upon winning a victory screen will insue with the same function as the defeat screen. The gui will continue until the player quits out of the window.

# If Random mode is selected, a high risk high reward version of Minesweeper will play out. In this version, the mines take up most of the board and shuffle with each space selection, in turn changing the hint numbers of selected squares, and making more instances where guessing may be required to succeed. To aid the player, the first 5 clicks are safe, and dennoted as such on the GUI, allowing an inital strategic placement of safe zones to try and get as much information as possible as to where mines may go. Also, upon 5 successful clicks a safe click will be rewarded allowing the player to click anywhere allowing for even more strategic placement to ensure as little guessing be necessary as possible. 
